Hi, my name is Maya Gans, and in this talk, I want to tell you how to start your own virtual
book club. So this idea came to me in the beginning of lockdown, I found myself feeling
really alone. And also scrolling through Twitter, I saw everyone taking on these new exciting
hobbies. Like remember the time when there were so many pictures of sourdough. So I was
looking at my bookshelf, and I saw Advanced R. And I realized that's a book that I use
as a reference, but I never read cover to cover. So I wanted to use the lockdown opportunity
to do that. And I found myself asking a lot of questions that I didn't have the answers
to. So I reached out to John Harmon, the moderator of the R for Data Science Slack channel. And
he allowed me to start a book club channel within that Slack and to kind of just see
what happens. And the results were magical. 12 of us ended up meeting weekly for the entirety
of the book. So I think over the course of 25 weeks, and we went from essentially a group
of strangers to now a group of really good friends. So first, I want to talk about the
cornerstones of why I think that this worked. And the reasons are twofold. We created a
microcosm within an already existing community. So you might say there's already R ladies
or other chapters and groups out there. And that's true. But that's thousands of faceless
group members who, albeit, are extremely helpful and inviting. Whereas this group was 12 of
us meeting on Zoom with the camera on and really humanizing this learning experience
with each other. The other component was that we made this as asynchronous compatible as
possible. So each meeting was recorded and put on YouTube. So if you couldn't attend,
you can watch that. But we also had this Slack channel for people to ask questions and even
answer them whenever they get to them. So you weren't really limited in lockdown to
this single hour. Now, the meetings themselves kind of changed over time what we did with them.
In the beginning, we took the first 30 or so minutes to review what we found in the chapter,
and then use the rest of the time to answer questions. But after a couple weeks, maybe
around week eight or so, I was getting kind of bored with this model. And I wanted to make an
application. I made a Shiny app that uses the concepts within a chapter. And granted,
this Shiny app was super buggy, didn't even work. But within the hour, we all debugged it together
and got it up and running. And I think that was kind of a paradigm shift where people started,
rather than just relaying information, they showed us their packages or other creations.
And it was incredibly inspiring and eye-opening to see how people are using these fundamentals
in these chapters. So now let's get to the secret sauce of why I think this model worked, right?
We're not the first people to make a book club. And I think it's because of two things. One is
that we have a facilitator for each of our books. And in this case, it was me, who, granted, I'm
pretty extroverted, and I was totally fine pinging people on Slack and being like, hey, it's Thursday
night, time to meet. But you don't have to be that pushy. Rather, the point of the facilitator is that
every week, there is an agenda. And if no one is able to give that presentation for that week,
then the onus is on the presenter to take that upon themselves, or else the book might kind of
like falter to the wayside. The other component is collaborative infrastructure. And for our case,
we use GitHub. And this image, as well as the text before this, are links. So feel free to
go out to our GitHub. But our GitHub is three folders. The first is our presentations. So
the actual markdown presentations from each week. The second folder contains a bookdown of all the
questions and answers collated from the Slack channel, so that you don't have to sift through
that. And the last folder is a data folder. And in this folder, we kind of took that concept of
applications and took a dataset and drilled down into it, where each chapter, we applied that to
this dataset of our own. Now, to talk about side dishes. So when we started this book club,
at the outset, the goal was essentially learn the contents of the chapters. But we ended up
learning all of these external things, as well. So I personally onboarded people onto how to
use GitHub in a collaborative sense and collaborate on a single project. We also
learned a lot about our markdown, HTML and CSS. And lastly, and maybe even most importantly,
we were still leveling up on our presentation skills in these times where we're all isolated
and alone. So I want to leave you now with a recipe card, essentially, to recreate this recipe
that worked for us. And the recipe here is kind of, I broke it down into seven steps.
The first is pick a book. What book do you want to learn? The second is find an online community
to make this as asynchronous as possible. The third is to blast it on social media.
The fourth is some books are, you know, have natural breaks that might not be the chapters,
so you might chop them into segments that are logical breaks. And then, you know, take a pulse
on the group and on yourself and see what's working in that precious hour that you're
meeting together. And don't be afraid to switch it up. Then lastly, I think it was really awesome
and fun that we utilized applications of the chapter rather than just keeping it theoretical.
And of course, in the end, have fun. So there's a link to the Slack channel here because I would
really like, if you are going to create a book club, to just let us know what works and what
didn't. And thank you so much for listening to this talk.